---
layout: post
title: The keyword 'this'
---

The "this" keyword in JavaScript can be very confusing, especially to new comers of the language.
JavaScript allows users to have access to the object that the program is executing code in by assigning it to
the keyword "this". However, what confuses many new JavaScript students is what the keyword "this" is bound to
at a current point in the program. I am going to give a couple tips on how you can safely assume what "this" is
referencing to.

Let's see a couple examples on what "this" points to in certain contexts.

### Global Reference
```
console.log(this);
```

The output of this code is 'window' because if 'this' is not enclosed within a function, the context the program
is executing in is the global scope. JavaScript binds 'this' to the global object 'window' at that moment.

### Function Invocation
```
var foo = function() {
  console.log(this);
};
foo();
```

The output of this code is 'window' also. Now I made a claim earlier that if 'this' is not enclosed within a function,
the program binds 'this' to 'window'. So why in the world is 'this' still referencing to 'window' when we're
in a completely different context? Well, when you invoke a function, although the program enters a whole new context, JavaScript does not reassign 'this' for you. What does that mean?

## You have to tell JavaScript what to bind 'this' to

If you don't tell JavaScript what to bind 'this' to it will blindly bind it to the global object 'window'. One way to tell it
is by using the built in native method 'call'.

### Using Call
```
var bar = {text: 'This is bar'};
var foo = function() {
  console.log(this.text);
};

foo.call(bar);
```

The output here is 'This is bar'. The 'call' method tells JavaScript that you want to bind the keyword 'this' to the argument
passed into 'call'. Another technique to tell JavaScript what you want 'this' to bind to is through method invocation.

### Method Invocation
```
var bar = {
  text: 'This is bar',
  log: function() {
    console.log(this.text);
  }
}

bar.log();
```

The output here is 'This is bar'. Using method invocation tells JavaScript that you want to bind 'this' to the object
that is calling the method. An easy way to remember this is, 'this' refers to the object to the left of the '.'.

Now that we've done some reviewing and have a good idea of how 'this' works, let's go over some of the confusing parts.

## JavaScript, the confusing parts

### Closures

```
var bar = {
  text: 'This is bar',
  log: function() {
    var baz = function() {
      console.log(this.text);
    }
    return baz();
  }
}

bar.log();
```

The output here is 'undefined'. You might have expected the variable 'this' inside
baz would keep it's reference to the bar object because well, it did in our previous example. However, this is not the case because baz is a closure
function (inner function). If we use the technique I mentioned earlier where we check what 'this' is by looking to the left of the
'.', we can easily figure out why 'this' inside baz does not point to bar.

The object bar is to the left of the '.' when we call the log
method, but what is to the left of the '.' when we invoke baz? Nothing. In fact, it does not even have a '.' because it is a function
invocation, and remember what we said about function invocations? It does not tell JavaScript to reassign 'this', but instead blindly
binds it to the global object 'window'. This is why we get an output of 'undefined' because 'text' is not a property of 'window'.
Remember - we have to tell JavaScript what we want to bind 'this' to. We can fix this by using the 'call' method.

```
var bar = {
  text: 'This is bar',
  log: function() {
    var baz = function() {
      console.log(this.text);
    }
    baz.call(this);
  }
}

bar.log();
```

The output here is 'This is bar'. When we use the 'call' method, we tell JavaScript that we want to bind the keyword 'this' inside baz to the argument we passed into 'call'. The result is bar because 'this' refers to bar when it is not inside the baz function.

Another common confusion are callbacks.

### Callbacks

```
var bar = {
  text: 'This is bar',
  log: function() {
    console.log(this.text);
  }
}

setTimeout(bar.log, 1000);
```

The output here is 'undefined' because bar.log passed into setTimeout is just a reference to the log method inside
bar. It looks something like this

```
setTimeout(function() { console.log(this.text); }, 1000);
```

So setTimeout doesn't actually execute bar.log() after 1000ms, it executes function() { console.log(this.text); }().
The output is 'undefined' because 'this' refers to 'window' and 'window' does not have the property 'text' defined.
One way we can make this work the way we want is by using the 'bind' method.

```
var bar = {
  text: 'This is bar',
  log: function() {
    console.log(this.text);
  }
}

setTimeout(bar.log.bind(bar), 1000);
```

The output here is 'This is bar' because the bind method tells JavaScript that we want to bind 'this'
to the argument we passed in which is bar.


## Conclusion

Remember these 3 things:

1) You must tell JavaScript what you want to bind 'this' to. <br>
2) 'this' refers to the object left of the '.'. <br>
3)  'this' loses it's original context in closures and callbacks. <br>

The keyword 'this' is such a confusing feature that JavaScript implemented, don't worry if you don't understand it right away. It's completely normal and just like with anything, the more you practice, the better you'll
get. I'm certain you'll be a master of the keyword 'this' in no time.
